Online encyclopedia - Wikipedia Online encyclopedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Encyclopedia accessible via the Internet or other electronic means "Digital encyclopedia" redirects here. It is not to be confused with CD-ROM encyclopedia. It has been suggested that this article be merged into Encyclopedia. (Discuss) Proposed since August 2021. An online encyclopedia, also called an Internet encyclopedia, or a digital encyclopedia, is an encyclopedia accessible through the internet. Examples include Wikipedia and Encyclopædia Britannica. Contents 1 Digitization of old content 2 Creation of new content 3 List 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Digitization of old content[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) In January 1995, Project Gutenberg started to publish the ASCII text ofthe Encyclopædia Britannica, 11th edition (1911), but disagreement about the method halted the work after the first volume.[citation needed] For trademark reasons this has been published as the Gutenberg Encyclopedia.[citation needed] Project Gutenberg later[when?] restarted work on digitising and proofreading this encyclopedia. Project Gutenberg has published volumes in alphabetic order the most recent publication is Volume 17 Slice 8: Matter–Mecklenburg published on 7 April 2013.[needs update][1] The latest Britannica was digitized by its publishers, and sold first as a CD-ROM,[2] and later as an online service.[3] In 2001, ASCII text of all 28 volumes was published on Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition[4] by source; a copyright claim was added to the materials included. The website no longer exists. Other digitization projects have made progress in other titles. One example is Easton's Bible Dictionary (1897) digitized by the Christian Classics Ethereal Library.[5] A successful digitization of an encyclopedia was the Bartleby Project's online adaptation of the Columbia Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition,[6] in early 2000 and is updated periodically. Other websites provide online encyclopedias, some of which are also available on Wikisource, but which may be more complete than those on Wikisource, or maybe different editions (see List of online encyclopedias). Creation of new content[edit] Another related branch of activity is the creation of new, free content on a volunteer basis. In 1991, the participants of the Usenet newsgroup alt.fan.douglas-adams[7] started a project to produce a real version of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, a fictional encyclopedia used in the works of Douglas Adams. It became known as Project Galactic Guide. Although it originally aimed to contain only real, factual articles, the policy was changed to allow and encourage semi-real and unreal articles as well. Project Galactic Guide contains over 1700 articles, but no new articles have been added since 2000; this is probably partly due to the founding of h2g2, a more official project along similar lines. The 1993 Interpedia proposal was planned as an encyclopedia on the Internet to which everyone could contribute materials. The project never left the planning stage and was overtaken by a key branch of old printed encyclopedias. Another early online encyclopedia was called the Global Encyclopedia. In November 1995 a review of it was presented by James Rettig (Assistant Dean of University Libraries for Reference and Information Services) College of William & Mary at the 15th Annual Charleston Conference on library acquisitions and related issues. He said of the Global Encyclopedia:[8] This is a volunteer effort to compile an encyclopedia and distribute it for free on the World Wide Web. If you have ever yearned to be the author of an encyclopedia article, yearn no longer. Take a minute (or even two or three if you are feeling scholarly) to write an article on a topic of your choosing and [e]mail it off to the unnamed "editors." These editors (to use that title very loosely) have generated a list of approximately 1,300 topics they want to include; to date, perhaps a quarter of them have been treated; to date, perhaps a quarter of them have been treated. ... This so-called encyclopedia gives amateurism a bad name. It is being compiled without standards or guidelines for article structure, content, or reading level. It makes no apparent effort to check the qualifications and authority of the volunteer authors. Its claim that "Submitted articles are fact-checked, corrected for spelling, and then formatted" is at best an exaggeration.[8] He then gives several examples of article entries such as Iowa City: A city of approximately 60,000 people, Iowa City lies in the eastern half of Iowa. It is also the home of the University of Iowa (http://www.uiowa.edu).[8] Wikipedia is a free content, multilingual online encyclopedia written and maintained by a community of volunteer contributors through a model of open collaboration. It is the largest and most-read reference work in history,[9] Wikipedia originally developed from another encyclopedia project called Nupedia.[10] List[edit] Main article: List of online encyclopedias See also[edit] Digital library Lists of encyclopedias Reference software References[edit] ^ Various (7 April 2013), Encyclopaedia Britannica, 11th Edition, "Matter" to "Mecklenburg", Project Gutenberg ^ Now on DVD — "Store software". Britannica Encyclopædia. Retrieved 15 January 2019. ^ "Main page". Britannica Encyclopædia. Retrieved 15 January 2019. ^ "LoveToKnow Classic Encyclopedia". Archived from the original on 27 September 2001. Retrieved 8 August 2005. ^ "Easton's Bible Dictionary by Easton". Archived from the original on 3 August 2003. Retrieved 18 June 2003. ^ "Columbia Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition. 2001". Archived from the original on 5 February 2002. Retrieved 5 February 2002. ^ "alt.fan.douglas-adams". Retrieved 18 September 2013. ^ a b c "Putting the Squeeze on the Information Firehose: The Need for 'Neteditors and 'Netreviewers". swem.wm.edu. 11 January 2005. Archived from the original on 11 January 2005. Retrieved 15 January 2020. ^ "Wikipedia is 20, and its reputation has never been higher". The Economist. 9 January 2021. Retrieved 25 February 2021. ^ Kock, Ned; Jung, Yusun; Syn, Thant (2016). "Wikipedia and e-Collaboration Research: Opportunities and Challenges" (PDF). International Journal of e-Collaboration. IGI Global. 12 (2): 1–8. doi:10.4018/IJeC.2016040101. ISSN 1548-3681. Archived (PDF) from the original on 27 September 2016. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Internet encyclopedias. Encyclopedias at Curlie Authority control General Integrated Authority File (Germany) National libraries France (data) United States Other Faceted Application of Subject Terminology Microsoft Academic Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Online_encyclopedia&oldid=1055547883" Categories: Online encyclopedias Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles to be merged from August 2021 All articles to be merged Articles needing additional references from May 2021 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2019 Articles with unsourced statements from January 2018 All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from July 2020 Wikipedia articles in need of updating from July 2020 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles with Curlie links Articles with GND identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with FAST identifiers Articles with MA identifiers Use dmy dates from July 2020 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages ??????? Az?rbaycanca ????? Bân-lâm-gú Basa Banyumasan Bosanski Català ?eština Deutsch ???????? Español Esperanto ?????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia ????? Magyar Bahasa Melayu ?????????? Nederlands ??? ?????? Polski Português ????????? Simple English ???? Srpskohrvatski / ????????????????? ???????? ??? Türkçe ??????????? ???? Ti?ng Vi?t ???? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 16 November 2021, at 14:01 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement