Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,411,289 articles in English The arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article The Harry F. Sinclair House stands at the corner of East 79th Street and Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, New York City. It was built between 1897 and 1899, designed in a French Renaissance style by C. P. H. Gilbert and built by foreman Harvey Murdock. It was successively owned by businessmen Isaac D. Fletcher and Harry F. Sinclair, and then descendants of Peter Stuyvesant. The Ukrainian Institute of America acquired the mansion in 1955. It fell into disrepair and was renovated in the 1990s. The house was added to the National Register of Historic Places and named a National Historic Landmark in 1978. The building largely retains its original design, being constructed mainly of brick faced with limestone ashlar. The northern façade on 79th Street includes the main entrance and has multiple windows in square recesses or Gothic arches. The western façade is symmetrical and dominated by a curved pavilion. The interior has six floors, with a total floorspace of 20,000 square feet (1,900 m2). (Full article...) Recently featured: Wii Walt Whitman and Abraham Lincoln HMS Hood Archive By email More featured articles Did you know ... Original Trictrac board and equipment ... that Trictrac (board pictured) was the classic tables game of France, just as backgammon is of the English-speaking world today? ... that Russel and Mary Wright's American design "manifesto" Guide to Easier Living proposed that life was "engineering problems with scientific solutions"? ... that the telephone exchange in Craig's Court contains one of the entrances to the secret government tunnels under London? ... that Bob Ferry became general manager of the Washington Bullets by selling advertisements for its game programs, giving its upper management the impression that he "must know a lot about business"? ... that the tourist attraction Little Canada has a "Littlization Station" used to create scale 3D replicas of visitors to be placed in the exhibit? ... that 14 top art students in the Russian Empire revolted and quit their academy because of a competition theme? ... that Nancy Cappello was described as the "founder of the breast density education movement" for her campaign to inform women about the issue of mammograms failing to detect breast cancer? ... that the biggest Turdus is 23–28 centimetres (9–10 inches) in length? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news SpaceX Crew-3 launch Kosmos 1408 is destroyed by a Russian anti-satellite weapon and becomes a cloud of space debris. We Continue the Change, led by Kiril Petkov and Asen Vasilev, wins the most seats in the Bulgarian general election. SpaceX's Crew-3 mission (launch pictured) takes four astronauts to the International Space Station. Former South African president F. W. de Klerk, who negotiated the end of apartheid with Nelson Mandela, dies at the age of 85. Ongoing: Belarus–European Union border crisis COVID-19 pandemic Recent deaths: Sam Huff Dzifa Attivor Young Dolph Julio Lugo Ed Bullins Bertie Auld Nominate an article On this day November 20: Transgender Day of Remembrance; National Sovereignty Day in Argentina (1845) Bust of Diocletian 284 – Diocletian (bust pictured) became Roman emperor, eventually establishing reforms that ended the Crisis of the Third Century. 1739 – War of Jenkins' Ear: A British naval force arrived at the settlement of Portobello in the Spanish Main (now in Panama), which it captured the next day. 1902 – While discussing how to promote the newspaper L'Auto, sports journalist Géo Lefèvre came up with the idea of holding a cycling race that later became known as the Tour de France. 1979 – A group of armed insurgents attacked and took over the Masjid al-Haram in Mecca, declaring that one of their leaders was the Mahdi, the prophesied redeemer of Islam. 1991 – First Nagorno-Karabakh War: An Azerbaijani military helicopter carrying a peacekeeping mission team was shot down in Nagorno-Karabakh, Azerbaijan, disrupting the ongoing peace talks. Thomas Chatterton (b. 1752) Irakli Tsereteli (b. 1881) Ancel Keys (d. 2004) More anniversaries: November 19 November 20 November 21 Archive By email List of days of the year Today's featured picture The ruddy turnstone (Arenaria interpres) is a small wading bird in the sandpiper family, Scolopacidae. It is a highly migratory bird, breeding in northern parts of Eurasia and North America and flying south to winter on coastlines almost worldwide. This adult ruddy turnstone in non-breeding plumage was photographed at Boat Harbour in New South Wales, Australia. Photograph credit: John Harrison Recently featured: Alan Bean Utah monolith Georg Braun Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Teahouse – To ask your first basic questions about contributing to Wikipedia. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning tools Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. 1,000,000+ articles ??????? Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski Português ????????? Svenska ??????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? 250,000+ articles Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú ?????????? Català ?eština Dansk Esperanto Euskara ??????? ????? ??? Magyar Norsk Bokmål Român? Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe 50,000+ articles Asturianu Bosanski Eesti ???????? Simple English Galego Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvi? ?????? ??????????? Norsk nynorsk Shqip Sloven??ina Slovenš??ina ??? Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=1004593520" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Languages ??????? ????? ?????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ?????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ???????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar ??????????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ????????? Simple English Sloven??ina Slovenš??ina ??????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ????????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ??????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? This page was last edited on 3 February 2021, at 11:11 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement